---
title: Breakdown in Treaty Negotiations
author: Lord Admiral Orinnari
date: 2021-03-18 20:00
excerpt: Extradition treaty with Mount September fails before it gets off the ground.
---
Discussions of a treaty between Wesbury and Mount September began in earnest on
16th March 2021 when the Lord Admiral considered applying to join the Augustan
Federation as a member of the Augustan Consortium. However, the Charter of the
Augustan Federation lacked certain policies and arrangements, such as
extradition, and suggested possibly resolving these issues with standalone
treaties. Lodish then mentioned that the Commonwealth, known for its lax
extradition policy, would be interested in such an extradition treaty, and so
the Lord Admiral took the opportunity to spearhead what could turn out to be a
multinational cooperative.

Since the Admiralty of Wesbury is such a tiny nation almost entirely surrounded
by much larger and more established nations - that anyone can leave Wesbury's
jurisdiction by walking in any direction for a handful of seconds - attempting
to enforce Wesbury's laws necessarily requires having frictionless extradition
policies with neighbouring states.

![](/WesburyGov2021/uploads/WesburyGov2021_relative_size.png)

The fundamental premise of the extradition treaty was that signatories would
refrain from claiming jurisdiction over captured persons if the claim of
jurisdiction is based solely on location: that say for the sake of argument that
someone committed a devastating raid on South Augusta and was pursued and
captured within the borders of Wesbury, this treaty would ensure that Wesbury
would not interfere or impose itself since the location of the capture was
purely incidental and irrelevant to the charges arrayed against the suspect.

Given that such a premise only applies in rather narrow circumstances and that
the full text of the treaty had yet to be negotiated, discussed, or even
finished, it was surprising therefore when Allen, a respected member of the
Septembrian community that had no relevant official role in the treaty
negotiations nor seemingly any interest to have one, began arguing with and
accosting the Lord Admiral, disparaging the treaty as fundamentally and
irreconcilably incompatible with Mount September. Indeed, Allen had already
expressed his objections (prior to any discussion of the fundamental premise)
over to the intention to ratify the treaty as law rather than kept as a mere
political promise, which is apparently incredibly problematic.

![](/WesburyGov2021/uploads/alleny_treaty_obstinacy.png)

While the treaty would allow Wesbury to more reliably enforce its laws, it would
also decrease the potential ire from powerful military factions which,
considering the two world wars, could flatten Wesbury without difficulty or
hesitation with the Lord Admiral potentially disappearing into a vault, so the
treaty was in part the ratification of a procedure that's already expected of
smaller, less militant states.

Some in Mount September suggested that such a treaty is unnecessary since
aggrieved nations can simply submit an extradition request to the judiciary of
Mount September, that Wesbury was in fact asking for special entitlement to
randomly kidnap wholesome newfiends from Mount September and subject them to
unfair treatment. The Lord Admiral obviously saw it differently, that Mount
September's laws of extradition left a lot to be desired:

[![](/WesburyGov2021/uploads/mount_september_extradition_law.png)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1F-fg1JJw1emH2S1DsMrBWgr4AAUgap0ccQPfkdqKhFo/edit)

The Lord Admiral expressed practical concerns: that in a situation where Wesbury
is devastated with grief for example and the perpetrator happens to be pearled
slightly within the borders of Mount September, the last thing the Lord Admiral
or really anyone would want to do is loiter on the fringes of Mount September's
borders waiting and hoping for the Supreme Court to assemble and rule on the
matter in a timely manner; that he'd prefer to return to Wesbury to repair the
damage and respect the ruling when it comes; that there's no practical
difference between the two in Mount September's ability to actually enforce the
respect of the ruling thus the latter should be allowed out of respect.
Additionally, there were concerns about the Supreme Court's ability to rule
arbitrarily: that the law specifies ways in which the court *may* allow the
extradition, but that the court could reject the request for any reason or even
no reason at all, or subject different nations to entirely different definitions
of just and fair. And lastly that the court seems to impose its will upon the
pearl even after it leaves the territorial jurisdiction of Mount September: that
aggrieved nations must adequately explain and have a game-plan imposed upon them
about how the suspect will be brought to justice which if deviated from for any
reason must be adequately justified to Mount September or otherwise face the
consequences including but not limited to the prohibition of future
extraditions. And *all of this* is because the suspect was, in the example,
merely captured a few blocks inside Mount September's borders as defined on the
ccmap. He considers this completely impractical if not outright disrespectful,
especially since Mount September's first extradition request seemingly prevented
the claimant from the chance to purchase a PS5, so the slow and bureaucratic
institutions have already had tangibly negative effects on real people in their
real lives on its first try.

That being said, while that extradition request had tangible real world
consequences, it still happened relatively quickly since the request was made
during American peak time hours. Whereas it's possible that, should the request
be submitted during European, Asian, or Oceanic peak times that the request
could potentially take hours, perhaps even close to a day depending on the day
and activity level, all the while having to linger within Mount September's
borders.

![](/WesburyGov2021/uploads/can_i_haz_pearl.png)

Any and all attempts at recourse and remedy for this involved submitting
wholeheartedly to Mount September law in the eyes of Allen, there was no room
for compromise or alternative solutions, particularly since Allen contests
Wesbury's legitimacy as a nation state at all since the low population count
makes it not adequately democratic in his opinion. The Lord Admiral attempted to
satire these absolutist views, suggesting a perma-pearl sentence for crossing
the border without a visa, threatening to tear up Mount September's rails that
happen to pass through Wesbury's territory, threatening to pearl a Septembrian
resident for "infringing on Wesbury's mineral rights", all the while playing up
the ridiculousness by emphasising how arbitrary these decisions are because
Wesbury is apparently just as arbitrary. Unfortunately however, Allen and other
Septembrians were oblivious to or otherwise un-phased by this, considering it
business as usual and just another exercise of sovereignty that's perfectly
reasonable on civ.

The Lord Admiral realised that any attempt to negotiate this treaty would be in
vain, particularly since the Septembrian diplomat resigned before treaty
negotiations began, as well as there being no indication of the appointment of a
new diplomat happening in a timely manner, *as well as* the indication that a
dedicated diplomatic channel would not be created until a new diplomat is
appointed, thus relegating important treaty negotiations to the court of public
opinion before anything's decided upon. Thus the Admiralty of Wesbury has
formally withdrawn from treaty negotiations with Mouth September since the Lord
Admiral currently considers Mount September as an unreliable neighbour.
